# Conjectures-and-Computations
These files contain code which can be used to check (for fixed parameters) some of my conjectures in algebraic combinatorics. There is no known proof (Arroyo, Hamaker, H., and Pan are currently working on a proof for Conjectures 2 and 3) for any of these conjectures and there is no known counter-example to any of them.  (There is also one file containing a computation needed for a proof in a paper of mine).  



<strong>Computer Assisted Proof</strong>

The file <strong>qt-assisted.py()</strong> in the folder qt-catalan carries out the computations needed to complete the proof of Lemma 2 and Lemma 3 of Section 9 of <a href="https://arxiv.org/pdf/2208.00577.pdf"><i>A conjectured formula for the rational qt-Catalan polynomial</i></a>.  Simply running this file without altering any parameters is sufficient to check the Lemmas.
  
 <strong>Conjecture 1: qt-Catalan Numbers</strong>

The file <strong>qt-conjecture.py()</strong> in the folder qt-catalan contains code to check Conjecture 1 of <a href="https://arxiv.org/pdf/2208.00577.pdf"><i>A conjectured formula for the rational qt-Catalan polynomial</i></a> for any pair of relatively prime integers.  The function conjecture(r,n) returns True if the conjecture holds for the pair (r,n) and False otherwise and also prints additional data.  The conjecture will NOT hold for non relatively prime numbers in general.
  
  
<strong>Conjecture 2: On type C Grothendieck functions:</strong>

We conjecture a definition (given within the code) for a type C unimodal tableau such that for any fixed signed permutation there is bijection from the set of Hecke words of a given length, L, to pairs of tableau (P,Q) where P is a type C unimodal tableau corresponding to the signed permutation and Q is a shifted set valued tableau of the same shape as P with entries 1,2,...,L. 

The function <strong>all_check(L,M)</strong> found in <strong>c-grothendieck.py</strong> in the c-grothendieck folder checks the conjecture for length L for  all signed permutations of (1,2,...,M+1). For each such signed permutation the code prints a triple.  The first entry is a representative for the signed permutation, the second entry is the number of pairs of Hecke tableaux (for the signed permutation) and shifted set tableaux (with L entries) of the same shape. The third entry is the number of Hecke words of  length L for the signed permutation.  The second and third entries should always be equal if the conjecture is correct.  The final output of the function is [number of permutations where conjecture holds, number of permutations where conjecture fails].

<strong>Conjecture 3: Type C Grothendieck functions--strong version:</strong>


In the c-grothendieck folder <strong>c-grothendieck-strong.py</strong> tests a similar but stronger conjecture.  In this case we do not allow Hecke words which have any pair of adjacent entries equal and at the same time we do not allow shifted set valued tableaux which have consecutive entries in the same box.

<strong>Conjecture 4: Shifted set-valued Littlewood-Richardson coefficients--GQ version:</strong>

In the shifted-LR folder <strong>skew-GQ-expansion.py</strong> tests a conjectural rule for computing the coefficients in the expansion of a skew GQ function in terms of (non-skew) GQ functions.
  The code actually tests the rule for what I call GR functions but this implies that the GQ functions have the same expansion. The difference is as follows:  Whereas GQ corresponds to all shifted set-valued tableaux, GR corresponds to the subset of shifted set-valued tableaux that satisfy that the first i or i' to appear in the left to right, bottom to top reading word must be an i (for each i).  Equivalently, we could define GR to be generated by the subset of tableaux whose first i or i' is an i' that appears in a box without an i.  The latter definition is more convenient for defining our conjectural lattice property.  

  The function compare(degree,skew,shape,num_vars) returns True if the conjecture is true for the expansion of GQ_{shape/skew} for the given degree and number of variables and False otherwise.  Up to degree 10 or 11 can be checked relatively quickly.